from hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 69. Recorded
live Thursday, June 2nd, 2011. Support for
Hansel minutes is provided by
Tellerik rad control, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications online@wwwdottlerik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Brandon Watson, senior
director of the windows phone
developer experience. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
today I'm talking about some
community things as a community
person, myself and by community
person. I mean, I work
with the community as a
part of my regular job.
I thought I'd talked to
Brandon Watson, Brandon. What's your, what's
your official title? Official title
is senior director windows phone
developer experience. Yeah, that's a
long, complicated title. Yeah. Yeah.
I'm just, I I've taken
a new email address. I
am now simply the phone
at Microsoft. That is it's
simple. I work on the
phone. Yep. Is that hard
to do? Did you just
change it and didn't tell
anybody, or how did you,
I created a, I created
a distribution group that has
one member me. And so
if you send an email
to the phone at Microsoft,
it goes to me. Sorry.
I think that's funny. Cause
you're always here always breaking
the rules, but didn't expect
you to lead with a
broken rule. That's awesome. Well,
you know, it's, it simplifies
the title soup that we
get into here at Microsoft.
That's cool. I'm going to
have to go and do
something like a, you know,
the dude at Microsoft, it's
easier for me just going
and creating them distribution list
with one person. And this
opens up a whole new
world for me to potentially
make inappropriate and abusive internal
aliases at Microsoft. That will
help me better. Okay. So
I'm yeah. I like to
make up titles for myself.
I had a developer liaison,
which I thought was a
pretty cool one for awhile.
It's a little, a little,
a little officious, but okay.
Yeah. Well liaison was a
little bit, It was a
friend Jackson. It makes it
much more official. Oh. And
also offensive. She's nice. And
then I had, well now
it's community architect, which I
think is cool. I was
thinking about, I thought someone
said I should be an
ombudsman. You think liaison is
snooty. Ombudsman is definitely ridiculous.
A button carries with it,
a certain connotation side of
the university, right? Scholastic pursuits,
whereas liaison, you know, perhaps
attache, you could be the
community, right. That sounds much
more political or bureaucratic in
nature. And so these, these,
these titles, they tend to
get a bit weird. You
know, it'd be nice to
go back to the.com days
where we all had crazy
titles. Like, you know, I'm
the, I'm the chief cat
herder, right? I mean, that's
a, that's what I go
for. , you've opened up
an entire European hotel thing
for me now where I
could potentially be the community
concierge. There you go. Okay.
I'm the bellhop. Are there
other people? I mean, do
I assume people just figure
that you're in evangelist? Right.
I always get called evangelists.
It's not, I don't work
for the evangelism group, but
inevitably someone thinks I do.
Yeah. It's funny. That's when
I get quoted in press,
I get called when this
phone of Angeles, even my
boss doesn't really understand the
entirety of my job. And
so we've had some good
heart to heart discussions about
that. You know, officially I'm
responsible for product management of
the application platform on the
phone, you know, all of
our analysts and press relations,
all of our messaging, you
know, managing the community as
part of that, or, you
know, all of our, to
developer marketing and programs and
working with partners. And there's,
there's a broad scope of
things, but ultimately it's the
public facing stuff, which, which
gets a lot of the
attention. And, and that just
ends up getting rolled into
the evangelism bucket. So oftentimes
I get called wins one
of Angeles, but there's an
entire division of folks that
are called evangelists and I
would be doing shame to
their name and what they
do by, by saying that
I'm a evangelists. I mean,
I do good work, that's
fine. But they, their skillset
vastly exceeds mine in terms
of what they do and
what they're required to do
for their jobs. So evangelists
at Microsoft make, you know,
things like webcams, like James
sr created the whole web
camps concept that's executed on
it. So like his job
was you conceive of that
to execute on and to
deliver those. And I helped
deliver those with him. That
was definitely something I don't
think I could've, I could've
done or pulled off on
my own and they make,
you know, code kits and
open source stuff. A lot
of that seems to be
a new thing that a
lot of the evangelists make
a lot of right now,
everyone seems to have some
kind of a code that
they are in charge of.
There's certainly that on the
website. I mean, if you
think about historically what the
evangelists were doing, they also
engage with our customers in
the field. A lot of
corporate and enterprise type evangelism
work is going into a
very large company and saying,
okay, let's talk about what
you're trying to do here.
And let's talk about the
entirety of the Microsoft stack
and let's figure out where
we can help you solve
these problems. So it's kind
of like technical sales, but
it's really presales. And it's,
it's more just building relationships
with, with your constituents, call
them over time and helping
them solve their problems, using
what we have to offer,
right. And making yourself available.
And I think over time,
the, the, the strategy has
shifted within DP development platform,
evangelism, RTP group. But one
of the things that we
wanted to do with windows
phone was get back to
having that deep level of
engagement with DPE, where we
have at the product group
level folks focused on the
community and setting the strategy,
but then working closely with
the field, the guys in
the field, that's out in
the local regions to execute
that strategy. And it's been
extremely effective. Cause we basically
started from scratch from zero
a little over a year
ago with his phone community.
And it's, it's grown quite
nicely and things are, you
know, things are moving in
the right direction and doing
so ahead of pace where
we thought we'd be, which
is great. But you know,
there's definitely an, a large
group of folks that sit
in a different division that,
that helped make that happen.
Do you, do you as
a community guy for the
phone, but I mean, you're
kinda like the primary face
of the phone from the
developer perspective, do you think
of your job as, as
sales or as advocacy? Because
one of the, I can't
get this, let me give
you an example. I gave
this talk a couple of
days ago, actually at the
Oregon community computer consultants association,
and they are known to
be a notoriously suspicious bunch.
I just don't like, yeah,
yeah, it's true. And they
don't particularly like Microsoft and
they don't think these are
the guys that are still
mad about FoxPro. He literally,
they are. And I always
have a guy come up
to me after the show,
after the show, after my
talk and who says, you
know, Fox pros, the greatest
you killed it, kill my
business. You know, it's like,
I wasn't alive. I'm sorry.
I apologize. And so I
started the talk by just
saying, hi, I'm Scott Hanselman.
I work for Microsoft. I'm
not here to sell you
anything. If you, if you
use windows, then you're already
using the thing I had
to sell. And these are
windows folks for the most
part. So that, that kind
of disarm them. And then
I just showed them a
whole bunch of free stuff.
And I said, you know,
I don't, I'm not a
business person. I'm not a
salesperson. I know that we
have other things we could
potentially sell you. But ultimately
I don't really care. I
have a lot of free
stuff. If you have windows,
here's some free stuff. And
I talked about SQL server
express and secret server, compact
and visual studio and web
matrix and asp.net on and
on and on and on
and on. And by the
end I turned around, you
know, quite a few of
them. And then they complained
about windows, but still it
were pretty well. And they,
they appreciated that. I wasn't
there to sell them. You
know, I dunno if SharePoint
licenses or whatever. And I
wonder since you just want
people to use the phone
cause you presumably like the
phone and there's no, there's
really no additional cost, I
guess how much does it
cost to become a developer
Tools for free, of course,
but if you want to
register an unlock your phone,
at least today it's $99.
And that also gets you
five or excuse me, a
hundred free apps, missions, and
valued member of the community,
blah, blah, blah. But it's,
it's free to get the
tools for you to get
stuff. Okay. So you can,
you can start, you can
write a whole app for
free and then when it
comes time to submit it,
then that's 99 bucks and
then, and then you consume
it up to a hundred
after that. That's right. Well,
I'll do a hundred free
unlimited paid, carry a price
tag. Oh yeah, no, go
ahead. Is it a hundred
bucks a year? Yes. A
hundred bucks a year. That's
not bad. No. And that's,
that's what it is today.
You know, it's, it's, I
don't, I don't view my
job as sales. I view
my job, my number one,
you know, there's for, for
our fiscal year, which actually
ends in about 30 days.
But for when I took
over this team and, and
we sat down as a
group and we said, okay,
let's, let's set our team
principles in stone. Let's these
are, these are the, these
are, these are the non
negotiables number one was inspired
developers, right? So it's not
so much sales as it
is making sure that we
have a clear message around
what windows phone is, what
the opportunity is to developer
and, and improve the effectiveness
of all of our outbound
communications around phone and the
developer opportunity and, and the
reach and the scope of
what we're doing. But that
was the number one principle
was inspired developers. And so
every time I take a
stage, right, or I meet
with anybody, I want to
understand what they're trying to
do and see if we
can help them do it
faster, better, make more money,
get more attention for what
they're doing, because it's, it's
ultimately the number three principles
is make developers rich and
famous, right? So my job
is to make other people
more successful. And if that
happens, then sales, the phone
will happen. If that happens,
apps will show up in
marketplace. If that happens, the
whole ecosystem will grow and
everybody wins. So I'm not
trying to sell anybody anything.
I'm trying to understand what
they would like to do
and see if we can
help them do that faster.
And there will be cases
where we can't, you know,
there's functionality that wasn't in
the original version of the
phone, like TCP IP sockets,
for example, let's, you know,
there's a certain class of
apps. You cannot do a
raw camera access to the
camera brush. There's certain things
you cannot do without that.
And so certain developers would
simply just say, yeah, I'm
sorry, we can't help you
right now. And then we
can't actually bring onto the
platform and I'm not going
to try and convince you
to build some stunted version
of your app or, or
take down your vision. Right.
And knock it down so
that it'll fit on the
phone. Cause that's just, that's
not good for anybody. I'd
rather tell them, yeah, that's,
that's high on our priority
list. We're working on it
and, you know, get, get
educated and, and stick with
us and learn and, you
know, become a member of
the community. And then hopefully
we can, we can, we
can get you what you
need over time, but you
know, upfront it's, I'm not
trying to sell anybody, anything.
I'm the only that I'm
selling as dreams of, you
know, having that moment where
you turn to your buddy
and say, Hey, look at
this out by publishing in
the marketplace. Did, how long
have you worked here now?
You know, my story is
a, an odd wandering one.
I actually started as an
intern in the summer of
90. If you can believe
that and did two summers
here then came back after
business school. And so I
was here for my first
didn't until 99. And I
left in the middle of
the.com kind of craziness when
everybody's shook a tree and
a VC fell out with
a bag of money and
everybody got rich. That was
the script. Anyway, I was
in the, the Lindsay Lohan
version of that movie, that
of a train wreck. And
it didn't, it didn't go
that way. The startup I
went to and from there,
I went to wall street,
did that for a few
years and then did went
back to being an operator.
So I've been in tech
companies for, you know, more
or less 20 years, but
came back to Microsoft in
2008. So I was out
of here for nine years.
Yeah. Because I always, I
always tease people at Microsoft
for being, I call them
college hires. They've never worked
anywhere else. So, so when
you started talking about that
was like 94, I was
thinking to myself, okay, there's
no way that Brandon has
any concept about reality because
I've only worked at one
place, but you said you
started as an intern and
then you left, worked in
the real world and then
came back. And that's kind
of cool because that, that,
that coincidentally, without me, actually,
without me realizing it, the
people that I ended up
talking to at Microsoft, the
people I work with the
most and the ones that
I enjoy talking to are
either people who've only been
there like three, four years
like myself, you know, like
Phil hack and Damien and
all those folks, or it's
people who work there early
left, went out, failed at
something and then came back
in to fix the something.
And I think that's Perspective,
certainly. I mean, look, you
know, you go work on
wall street, that's one service
writers. I went to a,
a hardware startup, the guys
that invented the blade server
and went through that whole
cycle and sold that company.
I started my own software
company and did that for
two years and built it
up to about 150,000 customers
and sold that business. And,
you know, it's, it's a
been a variety of experiences.
And I, and I joke
that I came back to
Microsoft for what I call
a wife style reasons. My
wife was a bit tired
of the startup life and
needed me to take a
break. And so when we
sold the last business and
made enough money to retire
for about two months, which
is what we did, we
made a decision to leave
Texas and she wanted to
move back to Seattle. And
so coming back to Microsoft
was the logical choice, just
from a, you know, it
was an easy re-entry, but
I'd always joked that I
was an entrepreneur on loan
to Microsoft. And I had
only planned on staying two
years. And when this opportunity
actually presented itself, it was
the reason I stayed. I
mean, it was just such
a huge, ridiculous, all inspiring
opportunity to come and get
to do this job. You
know, how could I not
take it? That's funny that
that two years thing, I
don't, I've told a couple
people this, but I kind
of only expected myself to
last two years, you know?
And then two years became
three and I'm, you know,
I, and I felt like
I'm getting some things done.
And then in other instances
I'm not getting stuff done.
So yeah, I've always said
that I would stay a
couple of years and try
it out. And then I,
you know, I've had some
accomplishments that I've moved from
different groups and then said,
well, I'll when they fire
me for, for pushing too
hard, then that'll be a
good time to leave. And,
you know, Chris, I always
talk about what Chris cell's
told me. He says, if
you don't get slapped by
your boss at least twice
a year, you're not really
doing your job. And that's
kind of helping me. I'm
always thinking even this week,
I've been thinking of ways
that I could potentially get
in trouble. And everyone's like,
don't watch out, don't do
that. You'll get an email
from somebody high up, but
that would be good because
that would be a slap
from my boss. And I
need at least two of
those a year. You know,
I listened to that, that
interview you did with Chris.
And it was interesting. So
you said the same thing,
like he only planned to
come for a couple of
years and then here he
finds himself it's, you know,
many years later. And then
there was also a, was
it the, a, this developer's
life would, by the way,
even Robert doing a great
job with that, that's a
fantastic separate podcast, but where
you guys, it was some
set interviews. I listened to
it and I guess it
was December. I don't remember
which one it was, but
it was basically people talking
about, you know, you just
kinda, you think you're going
to be there for a
short period of time, and
then you're there for a
long time That happens. I
want to make sure it's
clear because first there's the
showing up at somewhere, turning
your brain off and staying
there for 10 years. And
I want to just make
it really clear that no
one understands. Absolutely. I'm not
having like, you know, I'm
not just showing up and
hanging out and cashing the
check. I think you and
I would both say that
we would, I don't know.
I know you well enough
that you would quit if
you had to go and
lie or sell your soul
or anything bad like that.
I mean, no job is
worth your freaking ethics, of
course, but I'm always looking
for something that I can
either break and then put
back together or fix. And
that's kinda why I'm doing
open source over in, in
web platform and tools. And
if it got uncomfortable, if
it got bad, well, then
I would quit. And I've
already got support from the
life. She's told me ahead
of time that if something
bad happens and I need
to like quit on the
spot, she told me if
I, if I have to
quit in order to get
that really awesome quitting thing,
like we have to slam
my fist on the desk
and then like, Get your
Jerry Maguire. All right. So
I actually have, I have
the, the permission to go
for the pig firing, you
know what I mean? You,
you fired no, I quit.
And bam, you know, I'm
fired, you're fired. This whole
damn place is fired the
atrium or whatever, building and
start screaming. Yeah. You know,
it's a funny thing about
this place, right. You know,
I remember when I, when
I got recruited in this
job, the guy that, that
actually did the recruiting as
a guy by the name
of Charlie Kendall, who some
people recognize from the community,
but he basically told me
your job is to, he
was speaking tongue in cheek
because he said, your job
is to, is to create
the tee shirt. That's going
to get you fired. Right.
Cause if you're not, if
you're not living on the
edge, then you're the RA.
You're not the guy I
thought we hired for the
job because we have to
do something so ridiculous and
so audacious with, with windows
phone and, and, and what
we have to do to,
to catch and pass our
competition. We're going to have
to live on the edge.
And, and there's a lot
of truth to that. And
so I also have been
given the approval at this
point to, to go out
in a blaze of glory
of double-barreled if I need
to. But so far it
has it's it's, you know,
the guy that is most
dangerous is the guy who's
not afraid to die, right?
So it's, it's, it's good
to have a job where
you can feel really passionate
about what you're doing, but
also know that your passion
will live on and it's
not, it's not rooted in
just that thing. Right? You
can take a principled stand
if you need to, but
you have to understand that
if you take that principle
stand, there will be consequences,
right? You can't, if you
want to be proactive and
you want to be principled,
you also have to understand
that there may be consequences.
And as long as you're
okay with that and come
to peace with that, it
things get a lot more
clear that that clarity, that
clarity is free. Recent developments
in the.net world have opened
up a niche for a
free.net decompiling tool. And if
you like so many other
developers have been looking for
an alternative dotnet decompiler, you're
certainly welcome to watch the
launch of just decompile. It's
a new, powerful tools going
to be free forever. It's
currently available in beta, just
decompile offers a dotnet decompiling
and assembly browsing code analysis,
navigation side by side assembly,
loading, automatically updates, and even
better decompiling accuracy than you're
used to it's by leading.net
vendor. Tellerik our sponsors. And
it's got a very aggressive
release schedule and a roadmap.
All based on community feedback,
you can visit the justi
compile feature suggestion forum, let
Tellerik know what features you'd
like to see added or
vote on one suggested by
your peers. The launch will
be in the summer and
you can check them out@tellerik.com
slash.net. Decompiling you know, you
can, you can take that
principle stand one time. That's
right. You can take it
exactly one time. Hello. That's
I suppose, unless you get,
you could get demoted, but
I don't know how many,
how many lives you actually
get. I've seen people get
two or three lives inside
of a big company, but
at some point you usually,
you, you you're, it's the
law of diminishing returns. Yeah.
Within a company, you probably
get one. Sometimes you get
more than one, but Right.
I mean, you, you know,
you become a little bit
of like, like I may
already be getting the, I
call it the chicken little
syndrome, you know? Cause I'll
go in and I was
just like, this is awful.
It's all screwed up. And
people are like, well, no,
it's not that bad. So
you have to be careful
because that after a while,
people will be like, all
Hanselman does is complain about
how awful it is. Well,
you that's right. You can't,
you can't bitch all the
time. Right? I have a
saying with my team that
someone is always bitching. And
what mean by that for
our team is, you know,
you're, you know, you're doing
something right. When somebody is
telling you you're doing something
wrong, it's when you're doing
something over and over again.
And no one tries to
stop you where they want
to try to stop you,
that you have a problem.
Right? That's that's when you
got issues. And so you
can't, you certainly can't walk
around saying, you know, this
is, this is broken. This
is broken. As we gotta
be proactive and effective and
try not to piss on
everybody's pray. But at the
same time, it's your job.
As the guy responsible for
community to be in touch
with the pulse, to know
what's going to be effective.
And to have that, have
that data, whether it be
empirical or emotional, even based
on your, based on your
relationships to know, or have
a sense of what's going
to work or not. How
do you balance when something
that you think is right,
and something that the company
thinks is thinks otherwise kind
of like come in conflict
with each other, like recently
there was this whole thing
about where people could, could
unlock their phones. And it's,
it's a different kind of
unlocking than you mentioned before,
before you mentioned the idea
of developer unlocking, which means
that I can write an
application and put it on,
they call it, they call
it sideloading. Is that what
the word is? I can
put it on from the
side and then I can
deploy visual studio. Right. And,
or my friend could send
me his app and I
could install it and test
it for him. Right. And
then there's this other kind
of unlocking. So what was
that unlocking? Yeah. You know,
the guys, the Chevron team,
they, they, what they wanted
to do was let anybody
unlock their phone. You know
what I mean? Chevron, the
gas company, this is something
that not Generally ask them,
Chevron WP seven was the
website, but it's, it's Chris
Wallace and lungs and Rafael
Rivera. It's the three smart
guys that said, Hey, you
know, we feel a little
bit encumbered by your system
and we're gonna, we're gonna
cut a, poke a hole
in it and allow anybody
to, to unlock their phone.
So they can side load
apps and whatnot. And you
know, what, what they really
kind of at the core
were about was the, the
home brew community and allowing
folks to kind of tinker
with their phone without necessarily
having to pay the $99.
And there's still some things
we can't talk about yet
that we are working with
those guys to, to enable
as we go down that
path, because it's a good
idea to work with the
community and allow people, you
know, they paid for the
phone, they're paying the contract,
they've downloaded the tools. Really
the issue is whether or
not the app gets in
the marketplace, not whether or
not they can put the
app on their own phone.
So we were trying to
figure out how to do
that in a smart way,
without causing all kinds of
havoc and the ecosystem at
large. But, but you know,
my, when that went down,
the knee jerk reaction to
Microsoft was, you know, send
a cease and desist letter,
have the lawyer called and
tell him to take it
down, blah, blah, blah. And
you know, my reaction was,
well, hold on a second.
Let's just, let's just hit
pause here. Let's try something
crazy. Why don't we just
invite them out here and
ask them what they're trying
to do and just have
a conversation and kind of,
you know, let's just engage
with them, right? I mean,
they obviously care a lot
about the phone. They cared
enough to do this. I
eventually guess they'd actually want
to hear more about what
we're doing in the future,
et cetera. Let's, you know,
let's just ask them nicely
to take it down. So
sending the lawyers and see
what happens. And it turns
out when you ask nicely
the things happen, right? I
mean, if you look at
the, I don't want to
say that necessarily Sony and
divided their problems on, but
I mean, you know, they
had some challenges with, with
a couple of hackers and
one of them even went
so far as to say
you're damning yourselves with the
hacker community on his blog
posts very publicly said, you
know, the hackers are going
to come after you. And
here we are, six months
later and their entire network
was taken down, right. Folks
that care a lot about
a platform, enough to poke
at it, you should embrace
them. Right? I mean, there's,
there's a lot of learnings
that can happen from embracing
the community and understanding what
they're trying to do because
ultimately a lot of times
I'd say almost nine times
out of 10, they actually
just want to understand the
confines and the constraints of
the system and work around
it because it's an intellectual
exercise. It's mentally stimulating. It's
not about being some Wallace,
a brigand, that's trying to
break the business models of
untoward companies. And so we
learned a lot from those
guys and there's what they,
what they need and what
they're trying to do. And
there's certainly some changes that
we haven't announced yet that
we're going to, that we're
looking to enact as a
result of, you know, working
with them. And some other
folks that were, you know,
I would guess you'd call
them, you know, part of
this hacker community. So that's,
that's interesting because there's has
been talk, I've seen in
comments, stuff that, that people
are surprised with the way
that we're handling that, which
is odd. Because for me,
it just seems like kind
of common sense, right? I
mean, if the present, if
you have a hacker and
the presumption is that they're
not evil, well, then, you
know, if they're not evil,
they might be something other
than evil. Let's just say,
so call them on the
phone and talk to them
about it. Which is funny
because I actually, people don't
realize I do a lot
of community work on Skype
and on, you know, people
think I just hang out
on Twitter all day. Actually
Twitter is a reasonably small
part of my, my job,
but when, when things go
wrong or when I have
a company or a person
or an open source project
that needs some support, inevitably
I pick up the phone
and it's amazing to me
how surprised they are that
will, that will do that.
I mean, I'll literally just
pick up the phone and
sometimes I'll even have to
go and hunt them down.
You know, like they'll, it'll
be kind of involved. I'll
have to go and find
the, you know, find their
domain. You know, every once
in a while I'll kind
of call him in the
middle of dinner. And when
they realize that I am
also not evil or at
least not as evil as
they expected, I would be
then think things seem to
diffuse, make me want, you
know, it kind of makes
me wonder why people like,
you know, like Steve jobs,
right? He called him every
once in a while, he'll
send an email, it's a
big deal. Why doesn't he
have someone? He should have
a whole team of people
calling For him. The mystique
is the fact that he
responds very selectively. And I
think that actually is, I
think it would, it would,
it would dead. And the
effectiveness of it, if he,
if he, for him specifically,
he is a cult of
personality for, but the point
that you raised, which is
an interesting one, which is
about being available, right? So
one of the, for, as
we go into our planning
for the next fiscal year,
because it starts in July
one, one of the, one
of the new key principles
for my team is to
be highly available. And you
said, you start all your
presentations by saying, I'm not
here to sell you anything.
I actually start all my
presentations with a little, little
code snippet that I wrote
on a, on a whiteboard,
in a room full of
a bunch of business guys
that, you know, the few
engineers in the room got
it. And then they laughed
about the fact that it
was maybe it was bad
code, but, but the core
principle is make yourself highly
available. So I publish my
email. I published my mobile
phone number. You know, we
were going to start holding
office hours where I'm just
on Skype for, you know,
a 30 minutes, one hour
window. And anybody who wants
to talk to me can
just ring me up from
around the world. And I
did a week ago or
two weeks ago when I
was in town, got calls
from all over the world.
People had questions about when
his phone, about developing that,
you know, an idea that
they wanted to suss out,
but that being highly available
thing, it's amazingly disarming. It's
easy for people within Microsoft
to feel like everyone hates
us, but they don't. They
just it's. It's the, it's
the Microsoft, as a, as
a corporate entity is a
baseless kind of thing. But
when people outside of that,
veil can engage on a
one on one basis with
people inside the company and
realize that we're all geeks
and we all enjoy and
love technology. And we're all
trying to do the right
thing. It's amazingly disarming. And
if I can just turn
one of those people into
calm and evangelists, but just
a megaphone, right? Who's someone
who says, yeah, no, Hey,
I talked to those guys
are actually pretty good guys.
That's a huge win. It's
a huge win because I,
I don't scale. I know
there's only one of me
and I only have a
few people on my team
and, you know, we can,
we can't do a worldwide
thing, but if I can
kind of permeate this, this
mental model of, Hey, make
yourself highly available and engage
with people and actually pick
up the phone to do
everything on email or Twitter,
make it personal. It it's,
it's worked so far and
it can, you know, we're
gonna kind of keep tweaking
and figuring out what works,
but it's, it's very much
focused on, it's not about
me. It's not about us.
It's about them. And when
you, when you take that
mental model, it's not about
for me, it's, you know,
it's great if we sell
more phones and that's awesome,
but for me, it's, I
want developers to be successful.
And with that as a
genuine mental model, it actually
comes through and is received
versus, Hey, I'm trying to
sell you phones. And in
order for me to earn,
I'm trying to sell more
phones in order for me
to do that. I need
you to build apps. That's
a very different mental model
than I want you to
be really successful on our
platform. Yeah. One of the
things that I've been doing
in the last year, I
was like changed from productive
to happiness because the older
I get, the less interested
I am in being productive,
the more interesting, I mean,
just generally happy. So I've
been telling people that I
really want to optimize the
platform for happiness. And a
lot of people say that
I've stole that from, from
rails or from Ruby, because
people always talk about how,
you know, maths is nice
and we are nice and
things like that. And rails
is about developer happiness. But
I think just, I don't
think that happiness is something
that a platform necessarily has
the, it has the control
who has complete control over
you. Don't, there's no monopoly
on happiness. Well, certainly. I
mean, how do you, how
do you check in happiness?
And then who's responsible for
the feature. And really, it
just turns into a big
mess, Right. But, but happiness
does, you know, fall out
of, of our, our, what
we're trying to do. I
mean, I think about the
customer and I'm shocked sometimes
that I have to remind
other people to think about
the customer and just remember
that we are the customer
too. And that's why I
talk about getting back to
the beginning of the podcast,
talking about college hires. It's
really, really important to, to
build a real app and
to build a real app
every couple of months or
a giant app, every couple
of years, it's very frustrating
to talk to someone at
Microsoft who hasn't ever built
a real app. They have
worked there for 20 years
and buy a real app.
I mean, like, you know,
go to work for like
an insurance company or a
health agency or something massive,
you know what I mean?
And just, just suffer for
a couple of years. Cause
man, that's so important and
I've done that, gosh, now
three, four times, you know,
big enterprise apps that like
just drag on for 18
months. Sure. And change twice
during the process completely. You
know, I don't like C-sharp
cause I can't read the
code. So we're going to
do this in visual basic.
Actually I worked in a
place where we switched back
and forth C sharp PV,
and then back. Yes. Lovely.
And that's the kind of
craziness that, that you, you
can't even imagine when you
are working inside. Yeah. You
know, it's, it's one of
the curses of Microsoft is
that we are, or have
been historically a place where
you, you get, you know,
the best of the brightest
and you're surrounded by really,
really smart people. And, and
it's, you know, this, this,
this statement may upset some
people, but the sad truth
about mathematics is that is
an indisputable fact that 50%
of the population is below
average intelligence. Once you come
to peace with that, it's
very liberating in terms of
how you approach certain problem
sets because we are in
some ways, not our best
customer. Right. And, and, and
certainly for my team, one
of the, one of the
requirements is that you write
code for fun. I'm not
sure how you can be
a developer platform marketing or
product management person and not
write code for fun. Right.
Because, you know, do you
understand, like if I say
Murph, do you say this
isn't tight? Or do you
say, no, that's not a
denote mongrel number. Right. If
you don't understand those discussions,
you can't be authentic. Right.
And it's very, very challenging.
And so we, to your
point, it's like, okay, go
do something for fun. Go
work on some fun app.
What is your stupid phone
app that you're going to
go build? And it was
one of the things I
implored, even our broader marketing
team, just broadly the marketing
guys who have no coding
experience at all. And I
was like, look, we make
the claim that it's so
easy to build these apps.
You know, the tools are
so easy to use. We've
kind of reached that Gutenberg
moment. Anybody can be an
author and publish a book.
Well, you know, Hey, all
of you who have never
written a line of code,
go actually live the dream.
You know, download the tools
because I used to race
motorcycles semi-professionally which means I
paid more than I ever
made. But you know, if
I talk about, if I
asked you to describe motorcycle
racing, you might say something
like, well, you know, you
go on an arena of
concrete and you straddle a
canister of explosive gas with
wheels. And you hurdle yourself
around this arena of concrete
at high speed in close
proximity to other people and
hope that you don't die.
That that might be a
reasonable explanation of motorcycle racing.
But you, but if you
talk to somebody who's actually
done it, somebody lived it,
someone for whom it was
a passion for me. And
my wife gets really annoyed
when I say this, but
one of my happiest times
in my life, and this
is including getting married and
having kids, right. I was
sitting on the starting grid
at, at the, at the
start of a race. And
the two minute board goes
sideways to me, this is
race about to start. And
all the reps of all
the engines come up and
you're surrounded by a bunch
of people that you race
with and you want to
beat, but you respect. And
they're your competitors. All those
engines come up to about
11,000, 12,000 RPMs, depending on
what kind of bike racing.
But it gets really loud.
Your vision gets incredibly focused.
You're looking down the track,
you're staring at the lights,
you're waiting for them to
go out and it's, you
know, it gives me goosebumps
to even talk about it.
That's the difference between, you
know, describing something you've never
done and trying to sell
it to other people and
describing an experience that you
cared deeply about and wanting
to share it with other
people. And so it's very
important that, that we as
marketing people, but as people
that are responsible for the
product, be authentic in what
we do. And that's been
a huge part of our,
you know, kind of community
outreach, anyone who's engaging with
the developer community has to
be someone who understands their
problems and can actually describe
and talk about things that
they've done or tried or
can understand the problems that
are being described them. And
then appropriately stack rank, how
important or difficult those challenges
are when they come back
and say, Oh, we need
to make this change because
this customer has this problem.
Very cool. Very cool. Thanks
for talking to me. I
appreciate it. It's nice. I
dunno. It's nice to meet
you. Just another, another nut
job inside of Microsoft that
thinks that they can push
against the rule for us
and maybe, maybe change things.
So I appreciate that. You're
what you're doing and that
you're keeping it real and
Keeping it real. There's reaching
back into the night. Yeah.
Give me a call if
you can, if you get
canned. Okay. We can, we
can both slam our fist
down on the table at
the same time. I'll say
no, no, hold on. Hold
on. I can't be fired
yet. I got to get
a handsome in a call.
I want him here with
the cameras. Yes. All right.
Thanks a lot. Alright. Hey,
thanks, man. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I'll see you again
next week.